# Data Education Presentations
Presentations for scholarship from the Data Education team's R25 grant work.

Also see workshops and tutorials:

- [R 101](https://github.com/pm0kjp/r-101-rmed-2023), presented at R/Med 2023
- [Intro to Stats in R](https://github.com/arcus/intro_to_stats_in_r), presented to CHOPR 2021

## Installation instructions

To use reveal.js and reveal-md, with the [reveal-a11y plugin](https://github.com/marcysutton/reveal-a11y).

### reveal-md

Install [reveal-md](https://github.com/webpro/reveal-md)

```
brew update
brew install node
npm install -g reveal-md
```

## reveal-a11y plugin

Go to https://github.com/marcysutton/reveal-a11y and either clone the repo or download a zip of all the files.

In the terminal, navigate to the reveal-a11y directory you saved. To copy the contents of the accessibility subfolder and its contents to your reveal plugins directory, use the following command:

```
cp -r ./accessibility /usr/local/lib/node_modules/reveal-md/node_modules/reveal.js/plugin/
```

Then navigate to the reveal-md template directory:

```
cd /usr/local/lib/node_modules/reveal-md/lib/template
```

Open the `reveal.html` file to edit. You can do this in the terminal with `nano reveal.html`.

Follow the instructions at https://github.com/marcysutton/reveal-a11y, adding a link to the `helper.css` file, and copying in the script to call `helper.js` as a dependency. Specifically...

- Paste `<link rel="stylesheet" href="plugin/accessibility/helper.css" />` within the header section of the html file (there's a short section of other css files linked there, so it makes sense to add this reference to that list).
- Paste the following into the body of the html file. I don't think it matters where, but I put it in at the end of the body section, just after `<script>  Reveal.initialize(options); </script>`.

```
<script>
Reveal.initialize({
	dependencies: [
                { src: 'plugin/accessibility/helper.js', async: true, condition: function() {
                	return !!document.body.classList;
                }
            }]
});
</script>
```

Now when you use reveal-md, the a11y plugin should be active.

If you'd like to confirm it's working, launch a presentation from terminal, and right-click inspect to view the underlying HTML. Each slide section should have an aria label (e.g., aria-label = "Slide 1").

## Setting up repos to publish via GitHub Pages

If you want to eventually share your presentation publicly, [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) is likely the easiest way. You'll need a **separate, public GH repo for each presentation**.

When you want to start working on a new presentation, first create a new public repo on github. For simplicity, make its name the name you want to give to the subfolder with all the files for that presentation (something that briefly but uniquely describes the presentation, so it will be distinguished from other presentation subfolders, e.g. "empirical_personas"). Under the Settings tab, go to Pages, and for "Source" select the main branch and the docs folder. Click save. Note that a URL for your GH Pages site should appear in a message on the screen; this is the URL you will share when you want to send someone your slides.

On your machine, navigate to the directory you want to save your new presentation in (e.g. the folder for that conference). Clone the repo you just made. This will create a new subfolder with your presentation name (e.g. "empirical_personas"). In this subfolder, start your markdown file for the slides (you may want to begin by copying in the presentation template).

When you commit changes, note that you will need to commit and push to **both** the overarching data_education_presentations repo and the individual presentation repo you just made.

## Workflow

Write your presentation as a markdown file, including YAML header options and css in a `style` section at the end (you can also use a separate css file, if you prefer). To preview a rendered version of your presentation, in the terminal navigate to the folder with your presentation .md file and run `reveal-md presentation_template.md -w`, replacing with the name of your file instead of presentation_template.md (the -w flag makes it update as you go, so you can make changes to your .md file and save, and it will be reflected in your browser preview).

To save a static version of your presentation, e.g. to share via GitHub Pages, run `reveal-md presentation_template.md --static docs`. This generates a directory called "docs" with everything needed to host your presentation as a static site. To share your slides, make sure you commit and push all the files generated by the `static docs` command, and then share the URL for your GH Pages site (see above). 
